So now let's talk about Amazon GuardDuty
with more advanced details.
Number one,
you can have a multi account strategy with GuardDuty,
because you can manage multiple accounts from it
and you have to use an organization.
And the idea is that member accounts can be managed
through the administrator accounts.
So you send invites through GuardDuty
and then the admin accounts
can add and remove member accounts,
and they can manage GuardDuty
within the associated member accounts.
It can also manage any findings that GuardDuty resurfaces.
It can manage suppression rules,
trusted IP list, and threat lists.
So in an organization you can also do something else.
The administrator of GuardDuty
doesn't have to be the administrator of the organization.
There is the feature called the delegated administrator
where a member accounts
can become the administrator for GuardDuty.
So how does that work?
Well, we have an organization,
maybe two OUs and member accounts, and we create
and we designate a administrator account for GuardDuty
which is going to manage the GuardDuty
in all the other member accounts.
So we have findings in GuardDuty.
And findings are potential security issues
for malicious events happening in your AWS accounts.
From this, you're going to be able to automate the response
to some security issues by using EventBridge.
So how does that work?
Well, any finding found by GuardDuty
is going to be sent to Amazon EventBridge.
Now, from Amazon EventBridge, we can do a lot of things.
We can send alerts to SNS to receive email notifications
or to Lambda function or to Slack, and so on.
So for example, these are my options in here
but there's obviously way more.
And from SNS,
we can invoke any HTTP endpoints or send emails.
Now the events, when you are using a delegated administrator
or administrator accounts,
they're going to be published
both in the member accounts and the administrator accounts.
Next for these findings, so how do we have them?
Well, we need to make sure
that the CloudTrail logs are enabled
for management event and data events.
We need to of course, create VPC Flow Logs,
and we need to enable EKS logs.
So GuardDuty is not going to create those for you.
It is up to you to make sure that they are enabled
so that GuardDuty functions properly.
Now, each finding will have a value,
for example, from 0.1 to 8+,
and will be categorized at high, medium, or low.
And there is a naming convention,
you don't have to remember it,
but there's a way to name things.
So the ThreatPurpose is the primary purpose of the threats.
Then the ResourceTypeAffected is EC2 or S3, and so on.
The family name of the threats could be related,
for example, to NetworkPortUnusual.
And the DetectionMechanism
is how it got to detect this finding.
Was it through TCP, UDP, and so on?
And then what is being used in the malicious activities,
the Artifact, for example, the DNS.
So you can, if you wanted to test your automations,
you can generate sample findings in GuardDuty.
And this will allow you to make sure
that everything works as expected for a specific finding.
So more concretely, let's look at some finding types.
So for EC2, for example,
you have UnauthorizedAccessEC2/SSHBruteForce.
So someone is really trying to get to your 22 port
and tries to brute force it,
or a cryptocurrency attack on EC2.
Now for IAM finding types, we have for example,
a user that disables CloudShare logging
or a user that is using the roots credentials
which shouldn't be used.
For Kubernetes, for example,
you'll have access to the credentials of Kubernetes
from a malicious IP, and so on.
So you can have a look at, for example,
SuspiciousFiles for malware protection.
And here, successful login through an anomalous behavior.
So it's a weird login.
And for S3, well, is the public access disabled?
So that means now the bucket is public, this is a problem,
or is someone trying
to do penetration testing onto Amazon S3?
So let's talk about some architectures
because now we've seen that we can automate findings.
So let's take an example of an EC2 instance in a VPC.
Remember, we need to create VPC Flow Logs for our VPC
to capture the network traffic.
And this gets sent to GuardDuty
to detect suspicious behavior.
So GuardDuty is going to have a finding
and say, well, it looks like from the VPC Flow Log,
someone is performing the SSH bruteforce type of attack
on my EC2 instance.
So if EventBridge is going to generate an event for this.
We can hook it up to SNS to get notifications by email,
so that the security operators know about it.
But also we can use a Lambda function.
And that Lambda function can do two things.
It can create a web ACL to block suspicious request,
that says when you use WAF attached to, for example,
a load balancer or something.
But for an EC2 instance, for example,
we can also automatically update the network ACL
to make sure that we block the malicious IP.
Another architecture we can look at is, for example,
we have a firewall subnet,
because we're using the AWS network firewall feature.
So again, with an EC2 instance, we enable VPC Flow Logs
to detect suspicious behavior in GuardDuty.
And the finding is that there is a backdoor in our EC2
and there is some weird activity.
So EventBridge can this time
trigger a Step Function workflow,
and we can have multiple Lambda functions.
Number one, making sure that,
is the IP of the attacker in our database of malicious IPs?
If not, well, block the traffic.
And by blocking traffic, maybe the Lambda function
can call the network firewall's API
to add the IP in the rule group
for a firewall policy
that gets applied to a network firewall endpoint.
And as a result of this, while the EC2 instance,
traffic will go through the firewall subnet,
and the EC2 instance cannot connect to the suspicious host.
It is completely blocked.
Now the blocked traffic
can go into, you know, a success SNS topic
to indicate that yes, the IP was successfully blocked
or a failure,
and then maybe we need need some manual intervention.
GuardDuty also has the concepts
of trusted and threat IP list.
So this only works for public IP addresses.
And you can define a trusted IP list
which is a list of IP addresses in CIDR that you trust.
In that case, GuardDuty is not going to generate findings
for these trusted lists.
So for example, this allows one of your developer
to perform some tests on your EC2 instance
without generating security findings.
Now you has also a threat IP list.
So it's a list
of known malicious IP addresses in CIDR ranges.
And GuardDuty will generate findings based
on these threat list.
So it can be supplied
by either a third party intelligence provider
or you can create them yourself, custom.
Therefore, a hacker trying to access your EC2 instance
from a malicious IP will be detected
and GuardDuty will generate a finding.
Now, if you have a multi account setup,
only the GuardDuty administrator can manage those lists.
So that's it for GuardDuty.
I hope you liked it and I hope you learned a lot,
and I will see you in the next lecture.